about.md, before:

---
title: About
layout: default
---

# About Open Press

There are many great open-licensed books, but nowhere to buy them in high-quality, printed editions at reasonable prices.

Traditionally, publishers have to guess how many books to print, put the copies in a warehouse, and hope they sell. That is very risky. Worse, no one prints open-licensed books, because they can't control availability: anyone else might also do their own print run of the same book. And while print-on-demand helps with small quantities, the unit cost remains high.

> At Open Press, we pool orders so that everyone's books are printed in one big print run.
{:.shout}

By pooling many orders into single print runs, we reduce unit costs and save everyone money. Open Press is great for schools, colleges, non-profits and businesses who need to order multiple copies of books.

## Background

Open Press is based on an [open concept](https://manypossibilities.net/2008/04/open-concept/) [developed by Steve Song and Mark Horner](https://manypossibilities.net/2008/04/building-the-demand-in-print-on-demand/) at the [Shuttleworth Foundation](http://shuttleworthfoundation.org). It is now an [Electric Book Works](http://electricbookworks.com) project led by [Arthur Attwell](http://arthurattwell.com).

Commit message:

Add more ho-it-works detail, improve sample book

about.md, after:

---
title: About
layout: default
---

# How it works

When you print books, the more you print the cheaper it gets per copy. If you need copies of a book, Open Press lets you join together with others to print one big print run.

*	Our **members propose books** they want to print together.
*	We work out print costs to get a **minimum print run and a price per copy**. For instance, 1000 copies at R30 each. We also work out lower prices at higher print runs.
*	**Members place orders** for copies before the ordering deadline.
*	If we have enough orders for our minimum print run by the deadline, **we invoice members and go to print**.
*	If we get enough orders to hit higher print-run targets, we reduce the price for everyone. **So members encourage others to order, too.**
*	**Everyone pays the same low price.**

You must be a member to participate. [Apply to join here](/terms).

# Why

There are many great open-licensed books, but nowhere to buy them in high-quality, printed editions at reasonable prices.

Traditionally, publishers have to guess how many books to print, put the copies in a warehouse, and hope they sell. That is very risky. Worse, no one prints open-licensed books, because they can't control availability: anyone else might also do their own print run of the same book. And while print-on-demand helps with small quantities, the unit cost remains high. So, by pooling many orders into single print runs, we reduce unit costs and save everyone money. 

Open Press is great for schools, colleges, non-profits and businesses who need to order multiple copies of books.

While focused on open-licensed books, Open Press also works with publishers to aggregate orders for closed content. [Contact us](/contact) to discuss your project.

# Who

Open Press is based on an [open concept](https://manypossibilities.net/2008/04/open-concept/) developed by [Steve Song and Mark Horner](https://manypossibilities.net/2008/04/building-the-demand-in-print-on-demand/) at the [Shuttleworth Foundation](http://shuttleworthfoundation.org). It is now an [Electric Book Works](http://electricbookworks.com) project led by [Arthur Attwell](http://arthurattwell.com).
